---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - os stands for open source and is NOT a business model
---

## the (italicized) business model

When WhatsApp was bought by Facebook for 19 billion dollars in 2014, I actually didn’t really care. Generally, I’m not that invested in its business purchases and as a general rule of thumb, businesses and their models don’t really interest me. There’s a reason I’m not majoring in economics.

However, what I did find interesting was how that number came to be. From what I know about WhatsApp, it is a free messaging service that doesn’t have ads. While they definitely had users (currently two billion), I was curious as to how those brokering the deal were able to evaluate the potential worth of a company based on what it could do – especially if it wanted to continue to offer its services for free.

I know now that it charges businesses/companies for some of its messages but the whole business model seemed to bank on the potential of data rather than its service of it. I was so focused on how the app worked from an individual’s perspective (free messaging between my friends) that I failed to see how it could easily be monetized into a billion-dollar company.

In a similar vein, I imagine businesses that work in open source to also be as nuanced. From our class discussion and from Tom Callaway’s talk, I was honestly surprised that Red Hat was able to build such a successful company off of open source software. And it's because I was (and still am) approaching it from this individualistic perspective. If I am using an open source software, I am probably not inclined to pay for it either for technical support or additional features. But I am gradually understanding how businesses are willing to accrue that cost in order to ultimately generate a better product and profit for their own businesses. And I think I am slowly starting to see how Red Hat could recognize that need and incorporate it within their own business model and projections.

Going back to Callaway’s talk, I think about how Red Hat initially struggled with its business model. I appreciate this trial and error process because it’s indicative of a model that continues to refine itself. Offering a set number of calls for a service made sense in theory but then realizing that would lead to users bundling all of their concerns in one call is an issue that needed to be physically experienced so that the changes to their business model were more grounded. It’s so easy to speculate and criticize how a business should be run but it’s clear that Red Hat’s journey to figuring out a practice that works is the reason why there are so many successful open source companies today.

While I know that we talked a lot about the types of business models, one of the [readings](https://opensource.com/article/17/12/open-source-business-models) mentioned how “No large open source company has successfully survived solely on donations.” And from that, I think of Wikipedia. I think of how I use it roughly four or five times a day and how sometimes I get the sign asking for donations. I think of how it says only a small percentage of its readers will donate to its page, and how donations can cost less than a cup of coffee. And lastly, I think of how someone like me, who clearly benefits from its existence on a daily basis, doesn’t actually do anything to preserve its longevity. I assume that’s why companies have never been able to survive on donations. And I assume that’s why there are so many different types of models. It’s because individuals (me included) often neglect how much we have access to and how if we don’t respect it, it can all go away.

I took a class last semester and one of its mottos was that data is the most valuable currency in the world right now. Facebook knew that when it bought WhatsApp; yes, it’s a free service and yes, the messages are encrypted, but Facebook now has the metadata of two billion users and that is honestly worth billions. Meanwhile, Wikipedia is giving us access to that level of knowledge and data for free. With their user traffic, I could only imagine what their company would look like if they ever decided to monetize their content. It’d understandably take away from the credibility of their work – imagine reading about an illness and then having targeted ads about related treatments to that illness. Yet, I remain cautiously optimistic that Wikipedia will continue to hold true to its values and that users will one day cherish just how priceless this information is.

## my group’s business model

We actually don’t have one but I needed a heading that kept with this week’s blog. Eh.

This week, my group made great progress which makes me undoubtedly much more excited about future work. We reached out to Mek (currently the main contributor) and he not only set up a group for us but also helped direct our interests in the project. Open Library has a wonderful track record with how it engages in its community. They participated in Google’s Summer of Code multiple times and have had experience working with college contributors. They’re a wonderful community to be a part of and our group was recently honored with our own [issue](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/issues/6395). This is probably the first and only time that I like being an issue.

The Open Library community was also kind enough to record a tutorial video on the Books pages – a project that was recommended for us to work on. I cannot express enough gratitude toward everyone in that community (specifically Mek and Jim Champ) for taking so much time out of their day to ask us what we wanted out of the project and also setting us up with the ability to contribute. They walked us through the codebase and mimicked what changes looked like. Everyone in my group chose issues and we spent our meeting on Saturday gradually working on them.

My group also got into a thanking war with them (thank you for thanking us…) so if that isn’t a sign of great things to come, I’m not sure what is.
