---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - nine stands for nine is not eight and not nine is not elephants
---

## there's no i in team but there is in history!

what do you get when you combine the need to be an overachiever and mediocre time management skills?

anxiety. (and this blog haha!)

<!--more-->

I've worked in really really great team projects before with people who are now currently my best friends. I've also worked in not as great team projects with people who "surprisingly" didn't become my best friends. Over the years, I've come to realize where I personally go wrong in projects (if only I could apply this to other aspects of my life **sighs**).

1. Overeagerness - We're just introduced to the project. It's due in two weeks so it feels like the sky is the limit (assuming sky = two weeks). We're bouncing off ideas off one another and its just great vibes all around. As a people-pleaser to a fault, I'm so quick to agree to ideas or opinions because of how exciting the project initially sounds. If we dedicate the next two weeks on this project, we might be able to reach the bar we have, for no good reason at all, set to be approximately 93 feet high (as a short person, this is terribly tall. I can only assume tall people think it's tall too).

2. Timing - If a project is due three weeks from now, I don't think anyone would mind if I just didn't work on it for one day. And then five days later with the same mindset, I then have the nerve to be like "hmm...why didn't I do this earlier?"

3. Varying expectations - When I picture something in my head and my team member does something different but also just as valid and wonderful and equal, I try my best to let my image of it go into the trusting hands of my team members. Because more often than not, they'll always catch it :). My friends have nicely(!) told me that I'm often too nice and that comes as a sacrifice towards my own wellbeing. If I have a critique X, I often avoid saying "X" because I think it's rude and instead buffer it with "Great job, small thing but if you have time could you please look at X if you aren't too busy please and sorry" which diminishes how important I think X is. And as a result, I worry about X needlessly and continuously.

4. Final touches - I don't have a middle name but if I did it'd be "worry" (or something boring like "Anne"). I often times sacrifice sleep just to add little touches to the project that don't necessarily add anything more than what we have all collectively worked on. And I think it's relatively harmless but at times I wonder if it gives off a more negative impression that I can't let the little things go.

## team nine aka nine is not eight aka woo!

In an earlier blog, I gave my team members a shoutout for being so wonderful and I still stand by it. When we initially discussed coming up with an idea for our add-on, I came in with nothing but pure ambition. They did an excellent job with being realistic about our capabilities and also our reminding me what our priorities were (reminder to self: firefox [wordle](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html) is a life priority, not a class priority). I also personally hope that I did the same for them too (sorry firefox fake adblock). It was Chloe who reminded us that the focus on our project was not on the extension but instead on the "open sourceness" of it (because the class we're taking is called OSSD not FirefoxSD). From there, it was pretty seamless to bounce more reasonable ideas off one another knowing that the crux of the project really didn't depend on the border color we used.

I was happily tasked with setting up the initial repository and creating the extension. Because we were basing our project off of [Beastify](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Your_second_WebExtension), I had a good time converting it to our own purposes –  getting rid of external links for external css and setting up a clean way for people to contribute to our project. I also enjoyed heavily documenting our code in part because I really love writing (if the sheer length of this post was any indication ;P ) but also wanted to make sure my team members would review this code (and me) positively. I was lucky that we all share very similar senses of humor and they indulged in my `Have an OSSD blog due soon` / `2FA is failing and you can't complete the daily screener` moods and raised me one `Having to take the stairs because the Silver elevator line is too long`.

I think the division of work was fair: I made the extension while one of my members handled the `CONTRIBUTING` and `Code of Conduct` while another handled the `README` and logistical documentation (setting up a logo, name, etc). We also felt free to provide our own changes and this project feels entirely **ours** over any one of us.

One regret I do have is not doing a better job in the live log. I failed to balance our messages within our own private group with the Slack log. I mistakenly felt that the updates/changes I made were sometimes too informal and didn't belong in the Slack log, especially because my messages were typically in the AMs. Or when we had a Zoom meeting, we all knew what we had to do but I failed to document it in the log. Still, I understand the importance of having the log and the consequence of not having one cohesive area to track changes. At least our group chat was bopping!

## team one, and all the others ones

The above heading is just a pun but reading it over, it might come across as a bit mean?

I absolutely loved the other projects. I loved how creative they were, both the extension and the presentation and how thoroughly engaged everyone seemed to be. Most of us have never created an extension before so it was really cool to see all the projects and students run wild.

Highlights (hint: they're all highlights):

- Less Ugly Brightspace: From the bottom of my heart, I believe that the team met up the night before and decided to all wear black masks in honor of their presentation. I loved their presentation – dark mode is amazing and light mode is lame. My glasses are reflecting the screen as a type and I don't like it. Still think they should've called it Darkspace though...

- Blinking Borders: During their presentation, they made a joke that spoke to the soul of everyone in the class: "Oh this isn't a bug, it's a feature." Until I graduate and even then, I'll never forget this.

- Themify: Listening to their struggles because they were testing on Youtube which has special blocks broke my heart. I empathize with that feeling quite well and I'm so glad they were able to look back at that and laugh (hopefully they weren't crying on the inside). I also want to thank Neev for letting my team go first because once I got my nerves out of the way, I was able to enjoy all the other projects immensely.

- Study Timer: THEY. USED. LOCAL. STORAGE. (Honestly it really is so impressive and the whole project is so clean and pretty). They should really consider pairing with Block-OFF and searchionary.

- YouTubeEX: It was a really great project on its own but I think when a presentation is funny and engaging, it really elevates the whole experience. At one point they were talked about how 'little' code they wrote but finding those classes to hide and even just working with Youtube is so much more impressive than they let on.

- Slap-A-Fetti: What an absolute wonderful project to end on. I loved how much attention they put to the presentation on top of their original work. Hopefully the person who designed their background goes into graphic design. Cue confetti. And also spinning screen. We love to see it (but not for too long because headaches).

- all-luv: Testing this on my own, I think they were the only extension to include music which is so exciting. It seems like they too suffered an off-by-one Valentine's Day themed extension ;).

- focusify: Their name might be a bit misleading because it allows you to focus on Instagram which is probably distracting to begin with but I still enjoyed the creatively behind it. Looking at their code is even more impressive, does anyone know what class `".COOzN.MnWb5.YT6rB"` this is??

- Block-OFF: The extension is so practical but they fail to realize that `google` is where the distraction starts for me. I appreciated how they took this large abstract idea of blocking out websites and made it more manageable for the scope of this project!

- searchionary: It's a shame searchionary itself cannot be searched for. But integration with another website?? Data validation?? Also cute UI?? My heart sings.

Overall, I loved this entire experience. I liked how most groups expanded on the Code of Conduct because we just learned about how important that was. I also enjoyed the little niche touches they all had to their project. The whole project seemed so personable and interactive – a vast improvement from the old Zoom days.

## miscellaneous

I was working on a project and spent twenty minutes debugging it only to realize I failed to add a ; at the end of one of my statements.
