---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - i've actually spent this week resting and not standing
---

## the mid-term midterm

It is time to talk about the midterm in all its entirety as well as a personal reflection of all my answers.

<!--more-->

Just kidding.

Although I will say that I actually really enjoyed the midterm (as much as one can enjoy midterms) and thought it was a perfect representation of everything we’ve learned so far. If only it was open source. Sighs.

## after the mid-term midterm

Throughout this whole semester, there has always been an emphasis on the power of a community and how it can make or break a project. From the Catherdal and the Bazaar reading, it’s the usage and placement of trust in a large community that makes a project like Linux so successful. In Tom’s talk, he mentioned how his first step as an evangelist was reaching out to the present community and being as welcoming as possible. And I think this thread of community will carry itself throughout this project evermore.

This week, my group spent our time in outreach. It was quite enlightening. I initially thought reaching out to a community that seems to be filled with people who have been “in the industry” for what feels like decades would feel terrible. I did the project evaluation for Open Library (our project), and the person I wanted to reach out to had already made 1282 commits and answered/loved all these nuanced questions about this project. And then here I was asking them to take time out of their day to help me when they are presumably busy doing other things.

The best analogy to explain this feeling I could come up with is when you’re really young and you ask your parents if you could help cook in the kitchen. And yes, they’re probably grateful for the help but now they’ll have to worry about you and keeping you away from anything dangerous or particularly flammable. Indeed the intentions are definitely welcomed, but most parents are not going to put their child in front of a chicken and say “...go ahead, fry this.” Moreover, the parents now have to dedicate a portion of their time to management instead of just cooking. I imagined this might be the same for those maintainers working on an open source project.

In the beginning, the changes I want to make are small and so asking if I could fix a typo or some documentation seems to pale in comparison to the large-scale features and bugs that they are actively working on. Yet, in order to build trust within the community, I have to start small and familiarize myself with the codebase. I also have to prove to them that I can show up, do the work, and respond to issues and comments in a timely manner. It seems very Catch-22 if I am using that phrase correctly. I know I have to be willing to overcome the initial barrier I had placed mentally to be able to see the bigger picture of what I am trying to do for Open Library.

So after hyping myself up and stressing over my group’s initial outreach toward the community, I was so delightfully surprised when their answer was pretty much just “Sure.”

(It might also be worth noting that I am a very apologetic person and barely refrained from putting a “sorry” in my initial outreach out of pure habit so this whole interaction and analogy building I was doing in my head really was just me being overly dramatic.)

I wonder where this contention between what I thought approaching them would feel like and what it actually was comes from. In its purest form, this week’s work was just about my group asking if we could help and them agreeing to it. It really wasn’t as intimidating as I had imagined it to be in my head. If I had to guess, I would assume that it was because I’m incorrectly placing so much weight on age and experience compared to them. Now that we’ve set up our local environment and asked to be assigned to issues, I’m cautiously optimistic as to what comes next. Hopefully, if they continue to see us as people who just want to do our best and help, then hopefully I can begin to see myself like that too.

## michelle-aneous

- I should've called this section michelle-aneous from the beginning and it'll probably be one of my biggest regrets.

- MVPs of the week: Tylenol, Kleenex, Halls cough drops, and my brother for buying all those things for me.
