---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - ukrainians (still) stand for their country

---

## a prologue

In the most meta reflection this blog has seen yet, I remind the readers (probably just reader) of my blog two weeks ago titled `"Week 5 - ukrainians stand for their country"`. At that time, Russia had just begun their invasion on Ukraine and I didn't have the words to express how I was feeling so I just went with that title because that somehow said everything and not much at all.

Before posting it, I did ask one of my friends about how appropriate this was, given that this is an CS class which are not typically known for their studies on international affairs. I was discouraged from the title because of something along the lines of "it's not that wise to bring politics into a class like this". I wonder what he thinks of this week 7 title. Whoops. *

<!--more-->

## a non-prologue, just a regular log

Before the Cathedral and before the Bazaar, there was probably a cave. And then a tent. And then gradually buildings kept expanding and developing until we get these architecturally beautiful, engineer's worst nightmare type buildings. Once bare necessities were met, we then found time for decorations and flourishes and all the cathedrals in all of the worlds. But there's the huge caveat isn't there? You have to meet all the bare necessities.

I really like the The Cathedral and the Bazaar and I think it makes some very excellent points but I did feel like sometimes it glossed over a lot of what makes the Cathedral and the Bazaar work/not work. To be clear, I do fully agree with most of his rules and philosophies, I just wished that he emphasized some of the preconditions that were needed that made his examples so strong and pertinent. 

He uses Linux as his prime example and it worked because Linux had an *insane* support behind it already. And without that type of support behind it, a lot of his rules kinda fall on the optimistic side. Yes, you should respect your co-developer base and you should value their ideas, but in order to do that, you also need co-developers. And that's a huge prerequisite to overcome which is why you do sometimes need that cathedral-like beginning. 

I think of Hackathons and start-up businesses who have an incredible momentum to start off with. Then as time continues and wavering support ...waivers, a lot of the "right" attitudes and "striking" solutions might begin to fall apart. Their violation of the rules doesn't come from their lack of understanding of them, it's just that a lot of these rules depend on having a support system/backing that doesn't come by easily. 

Linux is one of the largest open source available and because of that rules like "Given enough eyes, all bugs are shallow" and "[Treat] your users as co-developers" feel right and meaningful and concrete. But what if you don't have enough users or eyes? What if the reason you can't treat your beta-testers as "your most valuable resource" is because you don't have any beta testers? 

This week we did project evaluations and one thing I noticed while doing mine was that when a lot of communities failed to follow these rules, it wasn't necessarily from a lack of trying. They are welcoming and they do want your feedback but sometimes they don't have the manpower to handle it all. A bazaar works because with such large audiences, there are so many smaller stalls and shops that people can get lost in.

But imagine if it was just you who set up this one tent.

And then all of a sudden it was you who had to constantly put out all the products (release early and often) or come up with new ways to market (use tools in unexpected ways) or even provide security (...provide security). Then the situation easily becomes too overwhelming to really consider and appreciate the nineteen lessons.

Eric Raymond did mention my own arguments near the end of the essay about having the right drive and attitude, and how these lessons weren't meant to be rules but more like philosophies to live by (almost similar to how the Four Freedoms are in contrast with today's open source concept). As such, I commend him for his brutual honesty on the success/failure of most projects as well as his romantic view of the future of CS. And I do say all of my arguments within this blog as a way to play devil's advocate. Because during class, I did express my support towards these rules and I agreed with my classmates as they showed their own support and understanding too. There is a lot of greatness behind these rules and a lot of proof that it does work (eg Mozilla). So hopefully my counterarguments present themselves in a practical, not pessimistic way.

I also say this as someone who is probably going to contribute to an open source project herself (with some hopefully boppin' teammates). I hope to work in a project that follows these lessons – that value me and my work as much as I respect theirs. I can only assume that the biggest challenge would be that first step. Finding an actual 'good first issue' and then putting myself foward as someone who is 1) interested in working on it 2) responsible enough to handle it 3) competent enough to do this project and group proud. Maybe this is the type of reflection I should put in my Taking Stock repo. 


## first amendment rights
There are people in Russia right now who are getting arrested simply for showing up to a protest, for carrying a blank poster sign, for having the wrong material on their phone.

And those are first amendment right violations. It's not Twitter banning your hate speech, or Facebook limiting what type of graphic video or photo you want to share to other people. It's not a private business refusing you service because you screamed racists slurs at their employees because you refused to wear a mask. And I think once people learn the difference, the world can become a much better place. 

I say all of this because I've been thinking about what we owe to each other. As friends, as neighbors, as citizens, and as people. I also say this as a notorious (among my friends at least) people-pleaser who has come to learn an very unfortunate truth: "You can't be nice to everyone because being nice to certain people is inherently cruel to others" [src](https://twitter.com/meganamram/status/1181598886172844034?lang=en). And it brings us to a larger topic of what open source projects owe to other people. If a person creates a project and someone else does something nefarious with it, how far up the chain should we place blame?

And this question is seen in all fields across all of time. If someone overdoses on drugs, do we blame themselves for their own lack of self-regulation, the person who sold them the drug, the doctor who innocently prescribed a different gateway drug, or even the company that began making it? And the answer, as is the answer to most things, is that it depends. There's a grayscale. It's on a spectrum. And sure, it's a bit disappointing, but it's also completely true. When we talk about human life and the human complexity behind it, it comes to no one's shock that each case is just a little bit different than the other. 

However, I do think there is a reckoning of sorts. I generally think people are becoming more aware of their own biases and how that can affect our outlooks on others. People often talk about the rise of cancel culture but I think they fail to talk about something that is rising in parallel with that – the rise of accountability. Actions have consequences and ignorance of it can not always be used to avoid the criminality of it either.

And I give this entire lecture and philosophical spiel to really emphasize one point: open source projects do have a responsibility to make sure that they are used for 'good' intentions. Yes, from the onset, it's impossible to define 'bad' intentions. Yes, it's going to be challenging and next to impossible to accomplish this. Yes, this can easily become such a slippery slope because one person's 'good' is someone else's bad. But it's been done before in the history of science and I think it can be done again. Today, scientists look at the Manhattan project and understand it for its extraordinary display of human wonder, but they first recognize it, and the bombing of Japan, for its awful contribution to humanity. 

So, yes. Let's support the open source communities and their limiting of their packages to nefarious networks. Let's continue to provide aid to those who need it, and hinder those who try to abuse it. Let's recognize that in an idealistic world, there would be no bad intentions. But let's also recognize that we are not there just yet and until that moment comes, let's keep fighting for it. 

## miscellaneous

\* The friend is actually wonderful and later gave his support about a minute or two into our initial discussion. I think he'd totally be okay with this title too. 
