---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - ossm stands for open source software management and not awesome
---

## my ossm team

This week, we also began our project work for our long-term open source project. My team, MCC, which stands for Media, Cultures, and Communication and just not our first names, choose Open Library. I’m cautiously excited already. Knowing my team members already and having people like them to lean on makes this whole process a lot less terrifying. (I am also secretly planning for many a Thursday night ramens to be had.)

<!-- more -->

When choosing our project, I liked how realistic we were with one another. While there were many ideas that interested us, we were all blunt with our technical proficiency and how that may hinder us from making the type of contributions projects were looking for. In one potential project idea, the main issues were related to parsers. While we knew of parsers and the language the parser was written in, we had to understand that if we were to choose this project, the learning curve might’ve been too steep for us to actually make meaningful contributions. When we came across Open Library, we made sure that it was an environment we would be comfortable working in (both thematically and technically) and that the “Good First Issues” were actually good first issues.

Open Library is a really amazing project. Both Crystal and I have previously worked in libraries and all three of us have a deep appreciation for free and accessible literature. I also spent all of my spring break just reading books instead of more productively studying for midterms (whoops). The contributing page for Open Libraries is so detail-oriented and well-thought-out. Indeed, it gives off the impression that not only does it welcome new contributors but it has so many of them that it already knows which answers and instructions to provide. Projects like these are probably as good as it gets. Even the form to request to contribute was very meticulous – asking us what our time commitment would be, if we wanted a mentor, and the level of integration within the community that we preferred. All of this speaks to a community that the three of us are very excited to contribute to soon.

## tom’s ossm presentation

I think it’s fair to say that Amazon’s reputation precedes them. Their business model and how their working conditions are must constantly require their PR team (for once, PR does not stand for pull request) to be working around the clock. As such, I was intrigued by how Tom Callaway was going to balance the notoriety of Amazon with the altruism of being an Open Source Evangelist.

During the talk, Tom talked about how AWS was trying to maintain healthy relationships with the open-source project they were interacting with. For some people, that may seem obvious but I think it’s a much bigger problem space than what it initially appears to be. And I think that has to do with conflicting intentions.

Amazon, for all of its services, has a very negative reputation as a company that differs from the original philosophy of open source. Although, I write pessimistically, using open-source instead of paying for their products does align comparatively well with their current business model. Regardless, I appreciated Tom’s honesty as to what the OSSM team is working for. Yes, open-source projects are generally cheaper than their alternative, but there are also other vast benefits that, once the emphasis is placed on them, show that the OSSM team values and open source values are quite similar.

Tom’s experience in and around open-source is why he makes such a good evangelist. When he speaks about the benefit of using open-source, I was reminded of our Cathedral and the Bazaar discussion from a couple of weeks ago. I’d like to imagine that the OSSM team philosophy is based on this essay because their ideas run in such a similar vein – specifically “given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.” When working with a team as large as AWS, I could only imagine how open source projects could thrive with all of these additional eyeballs.

However, it also is important to mention that work doesn’t scale linearly. Having more people to work on a project doesn’t mean the work on that project increases by a constant factor derived from the number of people there. Like Tom mentions, there needs to be a foundation of trust and understanding that has to be established first. Project owners might welcome a handful of new developers but if it lacks the infrastructure (eg separation of issues, roadmap of project), they might struggle with maintaining a good relationship within the community. The trust between the two entities must also be grounded in a level of realism – there is a good chance that Amazon’s interest in a project comes from wanting to eventually monetize an aspect of it. Knowing that shouldn’t theoretically turn communities away from the contribution Amazon engineers can make, but I think that it does make the trust more fragile. That’s why I think it is important for people like Tom to come in and actively work/lay the roadmap for how large tech businesses can interact with the open-source communities.
