---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - issues stands for issues and not 'issues'
---

## all the groups

This week was a great week when it came to adjusting perspectives. When we first started contributing to open source projects, I initially felt a bit guilty when our meetings were mainly spent waiting. We reached out to the appropriate sources but constantly pinging them because their responses didn’t match the class’s pace seemed a bit inappropriate. So often times, I felt like I was at a crossroad between not wanting to appear overbearing while also wanting to start contributing.

<!--more-->

As such, I really enjoyed this week’s presentations. I think it helped ground my expectations of what contributing to open source looked like. Yes, we had to push for certain goals – but we also needed to be extremely mindful of other people’s time. In Group 9 Blender’s presentation, I empathized with the classmates who had to wait a few weeks for an issue to be responded to (Easter is the best time for issue messages), but I also understood how/why it took such a long time before communication was firmly established.

One pattern that I noticed across a lot of the presentations was that communication between the community was often either the best or worst part of the group. When we were listening to CAGOV’s presentation, Javier talked about how he really enjoyed having meetings with those in the community to talk about his changes. Additionally, Alex talked about how CAGOV’s continuous gratitude towards their groups helped make their contributions seem valuable and their presence seem welcomed. By contrast, I noticed that some group’s biggest struggle was the outreach part of this project. Really the biggest benefit an open source project could have is having a strong community behind it. I recall all of the presentations that involved a complex setup process (Team One Army having to redownloaded Python multiple times) and I think of how having a mentor or guide would’ve made the whole process and experience much more rewarding.

As part of the outreach was the claiming of issues – something that I was glad to see that groups universally struggled with. It was almost humorous to see the same approach to issues be reflected across so many groups. Initially, there’d be a few issues that might match our initial skill level. But if the issue was really old, it raises the question of why it’s still an issue. Was it claimed but never fixed? Did it involve a part of the codebase that hasn’t seen usage in eighty-four years? Was the fix actually much more complex than it led on? All of these were possibilities that all the groups – mine included – seemed to work through. Another common issue with issues (haha) was how quickly they could be taken up by other people. My group faced the accidental problem of working on an issue that was then fixed within hours of our own fix. While definitely disappointing at the time of it happening, I’m glad that all of the groups who have had similar stories were able to think back on situations like this and laugh.

## not all the groups ( actually just open library )

Regarding my own group’s project, I can very excitedly say that we were part of the official build release 🎉. Looking at the [deployment](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/releases/tag/deploy-2022-04-21), it was amazing to see Crystal and my changes as part of an official tag. We may be a small footnote in the history of open library, but we are there. And for that I am ever so grateful.

Another thing my group is constantly grateful for is how constant and consistent the communication is. While I was struggling with writing unit test, I had someone walk me through how parts of the DOM worked with JQuery (something I had very little experience in). When Crystal was finished with an issue, Mek set her up with another one within hours that matched her personal preference and technical level. Meanwhile, as Chloe works on translations, the community constantly kept referring to how impactful and beneficial these translations would be. Overall, I’ve been really enjoying this experience and I can’t wait to see what the future look like.
