---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - tidepool stands for personal data usage and not anything less
---

## tidepool challenge

If the Tidepod challenge somehow became the Tidepool challenge, I think the world would be in a much better place than it currently is. I, and I feel comfortable saying the entire class) loved [Christopher Snider's](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopherasnider/) talk about [Tidepool](https://www.tidepool.org/open).*

My favorite part was how “non-techy” it felt. To the shock of absolutely no one, a lot of open-source projects that I’ve encountered both in and out of this class always, at its root, felt deeply embedded in technology and computers. In our project evaluations, I evaluated a text editor and even the GNU Public License itself originated from the GNU project. Yet, Christopher’s presentation helped remind me that technology is meant to help people and that people themselves can be enriched – not consumed – by the technology around them. As a CS major, I do get the irony of what I’m saying.

Throughout the talk, Christopher would sometimes preface his slides as being more oriented towards non-technical aspects and I loved it. I’m not diabetic but I can sympathize with the cause and having a deeper, more personal understanding of a disease like this can really only benefit those who listen to his story. I commend how honest he was about his own experience; it made the stakes feel more real than if he just used statistics. And I guess that speaks to the benefit of loving the job that you do. He mentioned it early on in his talk but his emphasis on getting the privilege to do what he does instead of being forced to do so, makes the work seem so altruistic.

There was a universality to his talk that I found particularly exciting. No, I may not currently have to worry about my insulin levels, but it's so easy to relate with someone's individual right and need to want to know about it. When I visit my doctor and she just tells me that my Vitamin D levels are a bit low instead of providing actual numbers, I'm a bit annoyed. I can only imagine the true fear I would have if it was something more serious like my blood sugar levels.

  As such, I enjoyed how meaningful Tidepool's work is and also Christopher's dedication behind it. There is an inherent correctness to having access to one's own data – especially one's own health. Yet as we are begin to learn, the most valuable currency today is data, and the way people want to monetize access to it, make Tidepool's mission more and more important each and every single day.

## the open challenge of lowering the bar

As a quick preface, I normally wouldn’t approach this blog from such a “sappy” angle but I think watching all of these social-good/humanitarian videos was such a welcoming reprieve from **gestures around**. These videos are idealistic and speak to a world and a community that is more welcoming and, pardon the pun, open.

The greatest role these open efforts play in our communities is exposing us to vast opportunities of change. And it accomplishes this by lowering the bar so that other actors can come in. In class, we talked about how a former [BUGS](https://bugs-nyu.github.io/) president worked with a foundation in Tanzania to bring laptops over to students. While the idea sounded amazing in theory, the lack of electricity in the school meant that the laptops were not as beneficial as they could’ve been. Yet, as one of my classmates mentioned, sometimes it’s not about having an end-all-be-all solution that covers all foreseeable angles. Sometimes, it’s just about lowering the bar enough so that other projects and movements could then step up with their own contributions. Maybe a company could only provide laptops, but their actions and their initiatives then raise awareness of other issues that can be solved now that the barrier for entry is a bit lower.

One example of this was in the [Chile](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/starting-small-open-data) video where it implied that there are people who want to help and innovate but without the open data, it is hard to know where to start. If we start opening the data up on air quality, then we lower the bar needed for tech companies to start working on ways to improve it.

And the examples aren't always physical. We can connect communities and open efforts across generations as well. In the [Food Farm](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/farming-for-the-future) video, the essence of it wasn't to show how younger generations are excited to be placed in mud up to their knees. Rather, it was to bridge together technology and farms by creating a [food computer](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/farming-for-the-future/food-computer). Kids don't need to ride tractors or tend to soils to gain an understanding of what farm life is like. If we open the field (and farm!) up, we can let them explore and create all on their own instead.

In short, we can raise the roof if we start lowering the bar.


## miscellaneous

\* As of the time, I'm writing this, it'll be his fifth year anniversary working there. He mentioned it during the talk so ... shoutouts 🎉.
