---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - april 28th stands for the first week of presentations!
---

## but first april 26th

As an invited speaker, I enjoyed hearing about Riju’s experience as an open-source contributor because it felt so relatable to the experiences that our entire class has been going through throughout this entire semester.

<!--more-->

Through the other speakers, I was able to gain a deeper insight into the overall workings of the open source communities – what it looks like reflected in companies, how it can be incorporated as a business model, and the practicalities of it that lie outside in a non-collegiate setting. With Riju, the talk felt more personalized to the experiences that I’ve been encountering. Because realistically, I haven’t had years and years of experience working on the nuances with open source legalities. With Riju, I enjoyed hearing about her personal experiences because they felt like such an astute mirror to my own. It makes sense that our previous speakers would not speak about how school life and beginner stages of development impacted them since they are no longer in that stage. But for me, and everyone else in the class, we’ve spent most of our lives consumed in an academic setting with priorities that Riju captured really well. So to hear her experiences, and to see how she overcame the adversity behind them, was really rewarding.

A highlight of her talk was how she was able to permeate her experience in open source throughout all parts of her life – from her internship at Blackrock to the networking she does by putting it in her resume. In both cases, I think it’s an excellent way to highlight what our interactions in open source could look like as college students.

Separately, I also really admired how dedicated she was to stay connected to the open source community despite not “actively” contributing. She mentioned subscribing to newsletters and attending conferences and the notion of even staying in the atmosphere of open source helped carry her progress forward whenever she chose to come back to it. This was especially pertinent as we come closer to the end of the semester. After this class, I do want to continue working with my open source project (Open Library) but I also want to branch out. Before the vision to complete that was a bit murky, but it seems now that the picture is much clearer.

## and now april 28th

This week was also the week of group presentations :) ! My group, Open Library, presented first [slides here!](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XOPfDNr9g4nLPvlYcw_8lWoql9r2eIVah9d_Z5Ekzdo/) and I’ve just really enjoyed this whole experience. I was extremely lucky to be paired in a really fantastic group with some stellar people who have matched my interest in getting Chipotle, Starbucks, and gossiping (as well as obviously doing work). I think it was important that we presented – often times our work throughout the weeks can feel very stagnant because the changes were happening incrementally. To have to go back and do a true reflection made me realize how much my group did accomplish. It encouraged me to really remember how much I benefitted from having the Open Library communities’ support – because on nearly every slide we had, I had wanted to include yet another screenshot of how they have helped all of us. And the presentations also helped me reflect positively on the lessons learned.

For the two other presentations – CAGOV and Oppia – I got to see both spectrums of how an open source project could go. The CAGOV group, whose presentation design was absolutely superb (and very on-brand considering their work was on a design system), was rich in the variety of contributions they made. I especially liked how Jay Li, whose initial goal was to work towards accessibility, was able to improve the documentation for design systems so that it became more accessible for those in a non-technical industry. Matching your goals with the work that was completed was a great follow-through and established a really nice line between beginning, middle, and end.

Meanwhile, Oppia’s presentation was more grounded in the realistic aspects of contributing. They recognized and acknowledged how they needed to adjust their timeline to fit those of the maintainers – preemptively asking for advice or understanding that their introductions might get buried under the onslaught of Gitter messages. Their struggle and eventual triumph to download their environment and get started on issues were exciting to hear about – although I do feel bad for all of their unit test issues.
