---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - osib just stands for open source in business and not open source in bad business
---

## tuesday’s videos were about community

This week, we continued our discussion on the intersection between open source programs and businesses. Whereas before we focused on the logistical aspect of it – how profits could be made and the like, this week we looked at why companies were considering this, to begin with. And I think that’s just as important of a question as any.

In fact, that question mirrors how we first talked about open source at the very beginning. Initially, we looked at what made something open source, and then, we focused on why we would make it open source. While I agree that is important to have a logistical and technical perspective, it’s arguably more important to understand the motivation that drives this need in the first place.

Because, as these videos mentioned, motives matter.

<!--more-->

A reoccurring theme in the open source videos was the importance of maintaining values and trust from within their own business and the open-source programs. This is an ideology that I really respect because it’s a good contemporary blend of business models that can be found in today’s capitalistic society and previously established open source community values. In one video, Mårten Mickos talked about how his work in open source forced companies (and the individuals that drive them) to come up with a moral backbone. And I really love the idea of a business having a moral backbone that is driven by its own users.

A few weeks ago, we talked about how in the general rules of open source, there was no limitation as to what or how a project could be used for. Rules like “Don't use it for evil” are overtly unsustainable. I also remember critiquing it in a previous blog because it gives companies a fallback for malicious behavior. Mårten discusses an interesting counterexample to this though: when businesses choose to work with open source systems, they have to be more consciously aware of their consumers and their customers because it is so public-facing. As such, both businesses and open source systems have to more firmly establish their own values and what they could support. One of my favorite quotes from him paraphrased is that the interaction of these two systems forces them to have a moral and an ethical stance because they will always be confronted with them. Moreover, the negligence of this stance leads to silence and complacency and that is “how really bad things happen”.

Because everything is well-publicized, you not only now have a greater commitment to your company's bottom line but also to the community of the open source system and beyond.

Another interesting aspect came from the “Why should you have an Open Source Program Office?“ video. I think the bluntness of this video helped ground our discussion in reality. Both Nithya and Gil were honest about the challenges of balancing out the competitiveness of software with the seemingly conflicting interests of open source software. Gil, who works at the US bank, talked briefly but also poignantly about this conflict. Because yes, banks, like in any other industry, are in competition with one another, and the drive to stand out from their competitors should create the natural conclusion that banks should keep their software proprietary so as to keep their features, benefits, and bonuses to themselves. To support this claim, consider a lot of companies that are not in this realm of open source. Instead, we see this in NDA's, proprietary software, and trademarks. The biggest downside to this is then the possible inconsistency across software that ultimately harms users and creates a more toxic environment.

Consider the Apple versus the Right to Repair movement. Apple wanted to lock their designs and their patents to profit off of people willing to pay an arbitrarily large cost to fix their device without truly knowing why or what was happening. This black box encapsulation-type nightmare spurred a movement that argued (in a very similar philosophy to the open-source movement) that people have the right to know what goes on in and they are also owed the right to fix the products they buy. This competition between the two remained a huge point of contention until Apple gradually began making concessions following, to everyone’s delight, public backlash.

To generalize this in the context of Gil’s discussion, I think he was conceding that while competition is necessary, there comes a point where competition only comes at the cost of user satisfaction and poor software maintenance. The success of the industry relies on the trust model formed between competitors. If every single bank was using different software that had different compatibility features and had different benefits, then even the act of transferring money over could be needlessly complex and ugly. Instead, and almost paradoxically, if companies implemented open source software that allowed for interactions between other competitors, they would benefit even more vastly than had they kept everything secret. The ground floor of an open source project generates trust and technological advancement well beyond the means of any one’s proprietary proposal.

## thursday’s videos were also about community

This week, I went to the Open Library Community meeting where I got to meet everyone working there actively as well as any new volunteers (ironically the seven new college students outnumbered the six main contributors). Initially, I fearfully thought it would be really awkward because these were all seasoned workers and I had only worked with the codebase for a few weeks at that point. However, from the bottom of my heart, they really are just a hoot and half.

I am immensely grateful for how welcoming they all were. I think one of the hardest things about contributing is trying to feel welcomed when placed with people you’ve never met before. Yet, the people at the meeting took active steps to make everyone feel welcomed. Throughout the meeting, I was constantly asked for feedback as well as my own opinions. Adorably, all of my comments and questions are immortalized in the weekly minutes (thank you Mek for note-taking) and I feel like my presence there was worthwhile. This wondrous feeling was also aided later in the week when one of the questions asked by my group member was previously asked by me in the meeting and the answer could be referenced from the minutes document.

With my pull request made, I am cautiously (!!) excited to be going through the process of code review right now. While I've had pull requests be reviewed before, most of my excitement comes behind contributing something that could be seen by possibly five million people and then having that contribution be favorably looked at. Abstractly, working on this project was a good reflection of the actual workflow of a project. For example, I've never seen so many build tests happen at one point but I know that they’re all necessary. I've also always known about code standards and documentation but I think working on an open source project really emphasized how important it is. Considering just how many people are looking and testing school-it really does matter when variables are named poorly or if you initialize variables that never get used. Not that I would ever do that. Whoooops.
